league_years.csv

Information about league structures used when choosing the default configurations related to a specific season. This replaces the League Info table for these leagues. Changes to this file do not control how leagues operate. For instance, changing the number of games in the season, without a set of schedule files that completely support this change, will result in an unstable universe.

At the time of the 9.1 update in September 2024, the only entries with corresponding default player files are 2023 and 2024.

Fields

YEAR - The year the league begins. Note that there are years in this table for which no default player files currently exist.
TEAMS - Total number of teams in the league.
DIVISIONS - Total number of divisions in the league. This must be divisible by 2, as all league have two conferences with an equal number of divisions. The maximum supported by the game is 8.
PLAYOFFTEAMS - The total number of teams reaching the playoffs. This must be divisible by 2, and it must be less than the total number of teams in the league.
GAMES - The number of regular-season games played by teams.
WEEKS - The number of weeks in the regular season. This must be at least the number of weeks in the regular season schedule.
EXGAMES - The number of exhibition games played by teams.
EXWEEKS - The number of weeks in the exhibition season.
CONF1 - The name of the first conference.
CONF1ABBR - The abbreviation used for the first conference.
CONF2 - The name of the second conference.
CONF1ABBR - The abbreviation used for the second conference.
DIV1 - The name of the first division in the first conference.
DIV1TEAMS - The number of teams in the first division in the first conference.
DIV2, DIV3, ... DIV8 - The name of each division. Each division in the first conference is named before the first division in the second conference. A blank field is used for DIV5, for example, if there are only 4 divisions.
DIV2TEAMS, DIV3TEAMS, ... DIV8TEAMS - The number of teams in each division. A 0 is used for DIV5TEAMS, for example, if there are only 4 divisions.
CHAMPIONSHIP - The name of the championship game for the league.
SALARYCAP - The amount of the salary cap, in units of $100,000, used in the first year of the first season.
MINIMUM - The minimum yearly salary, in units of $10,000, for rookies.
SALARY1 - The minimum yearly salary, in units of $10,000, for players with 1 year of experience in the league.
SALARY2 - The minimum yearly salary, in units of $10,000, for players with 2 years of experience in the league.
SALARY3 - The minimum yearly salary, in units of $10,000, for players with 3 years of experience in the league.
SALARY45 - The minimum yearly salary, in units of $10,000, for players with 4-5 years of experience in the league.
SALARY789 - The minimum yearly salary, in units of $10,000, for players with 7-9 years of experience in the league.
SALARY10 - The minimum yearly salary, in units of $10,000, for players with 10 years or more of experience in the league.
SCHEDULE - Name of the schedule for the league structure. This is in the form x_y_z, where x is the total number of teams in the league, y is the number of divisions and z is the number of regular-season games. This will match the file name of the schedule used for this league.
ROTATION - The number of rotations in the schedule for the league. Each rotation has a full slate of exhibition and regular-season games. Starting with rotation 1, each rotation is used, in turn, for a new season. After the first full set of rotations, the set is used again, reversing the home teams.
ROTATIONBASE - The year in which rotation 1 is used. So, for example, if the game is putting together the 2022 schedule and the rotation base is 2002, the rotation (2022-2001 / mod 12) or 9 is used. But since (2022-2001 / mod 24) is 12 or more, the home teams are reversed when using rotation 9.  

This table should not be edited. It is much easier to customize the game by making new entries in the League Info table. Default teams for leagues started using the League Years table can be found in the Team Info table.

Important: The ratio of the minimum salary levels to the salary cap should be preserved as it is in entries where there is a corresponding installation-supplied default player file, as the game makes heavy use of this ratio.
