xxxx_quarterbacks.csv

Information about the default quarterback files provided with Front Office Football Nine. The xxxx in the file name corresponds to the year a universe started with that quarterback file begins. The game will use this quarterback file when starting a new universe.

At the time of the 9.1 update in September 2024, the only entries with corresponding default quarterback files are 2023 and 2024. This is done with the understanding that no professional football player has endorsed Front Office Football in any way, in accordance with the federal Lanham Act.

Be careful when editing or creating a new matching quarterback file. Not all values are thoroughly checked when starting a new universe, and a mistake could result in an unstable universe.

If player ratings deviate from the distribution of ratings provided here, the universe could easily produce statistical performances that are very different from the default quarterback file.

If birthdates deviate much from the years you see in a quarterback file for a particular year, players may retire earlier or later than players should, given their experience.

Fields

PLAYERID - The interal identifier given this quarterback in the initial universe. This must be unique within the universe and must be 1 or greater. When creating new players after the initial universe is created, they will be assigned unique IDs sequentially, beginning with one more than the highest ID in this file. Quarterbacks should have player IDs between 500-999, and the quarterback entries should be sorted, lowest to highest ID.
LASTNAME - The last name of the quarterback. This should be no longer than 18 characters.
FIRSTNAME - The first name of the quarterback. This should be no longer than 16 characters.
TEAM - The team the quarterback is originally assigned to when there's no initial draft in the game. Use the ID for the team as found for the year of the quarterback file in team_info.csv. Use 0 if the quarterback was a free agent at the start of that year. 
UNIFORM - The quarterback's uniform number with his initial team, when there's no initial draft. This should range from 0-99. A uniform number should be unique on this team, as no checking is done when starting a new league.
HEIGHT - The quarterback's height. This can be the number of inches (72 is six feet tall). Or, if the value is more than 99, it can be the number of inches, with the last digit indicating eighths of an inch (745 would be 6' 2 5/8"). You can mix these ranges in one player file.
HANDSIZE - The quarterback's hand size, in inches and eighths of an inch (93 is 9 3/8").
ARMLENGTH - The quarterback's arm length, in inches and eighths of an inch.
WEIGHT - The quarterback's weight, in pounds.
BIRTHMONTH - The month of the quarterback's birthdate, a value from 1 to 12.
BIRTHDAY - The day of the quarterback's birthdate, a value from 1 to 31.
BIRTHYEAR - The year of the quarterback's birthdate. This should be consistent with the year of the player file. For instance, a quarterback with four years of experience should probably have a birth year about 26-28 years earlier than the year of the quarterback file.
BIRTHCITY - This is a text field not read by the game, but helps when working with a quarterback file.
CITYID - The ID of the city of the quarterback's birth. This must match an ID of a city in cities.csv.
COLLEGE - This is a text field not read by the game, but helps when working with a quarterback file.
COLLEGEID - The ID of the college the quarterback attended. This must match an ID of a college in colleges.csv (0 for No College).
YEARENTRY - The year a quarterback would have been part of a draft class, even if he wasn't drafted. Unusual values in this field could cause instabilty in areas where past draft results can be viewed.
ROUNDDRAFTED - The round of the draft when a quarterback was selected. This should be 0 if a quarterback was undrafted.
SELECTIONDRAFTED - The overall selection of the draft when a quarterback was selected. This should be 0 if a quarterback was undrafted.
SUPPLEMENTAL - This should be 0 if a quarterback was selected (or went undrafted) in the amateur draft. It should be 1 if he was selected during the league's supplemental draft. Front Office Football Nine does not include a supplemental draft of its own.
ORIGINALTEAM - Either the team that drafted the quarterback, or, if the quarterback was undrafted, the team that first signed him (even if he never played for that team). Use the ID for the team as found for the year of the player file in team_info.csv. Use 0 if the quarterback was not drafted or signed to any team within a year of first being available.
EXPERIENCE - The quarterback's accrued experience, in years, before the first season begins. This should be a value from 0 to 23.
YEARSIGNED - The year that the quarterback's current team, if starting without an initial draft, signed or drafted this player.
PLAYPERCENTAGE - The percentage of snaps on offense the quarterback played, for his team, during the previous season. This should range from 0-100.
HALLOFFAMEPOINTS - This field is used when calculating whether a quarterback might reach the Hall of Fame when he retires. It ranges from 0 to 9999. Each season, a quarterback's performances add to this value.
SALARYYEARS - The number of years remaining on a quarterback's contract. This must range from 0-5.
SALARYYEAR1 - The quarterback's salary in the first year of this contract (in units of $10,000, so 452 would indicate a value of $4,520,000). Use 0 if the quarterback is not under contract that season. Salaries and bonuses must be below 10,000 ($1 billion) in a player file.
BONUSYEAR1 - The quarterback's accrued bonus in the first year of this contract (in units of $10,000).
SALARYYEAR2 - The quarterback's salary in the second year of this contract (in units of $10,000).
BONUSYEAR2 - The quarterback's accrued bonus in the second year of this contract (in units of $10,000).
SALARYYEAR3 - The quarterback's salary in the third year of this contract (in units of $10,000).
BONUSYEAR3 - The quarterback's accrued bonus in the third year of this contract (in units of $10,000).
SALARYYEAR4 - The quarterback's salary in the fourth year of this contract (in units of $10,000).
BONUSYEAR4 - The quarterback's accrued bonus in the fourth year of this contract (in units of $10,000).
SALARYYEAR5 - The quarterback's salary in the fifth year of this contract (in units of $10,000).
BONUSYEAR5 - The quarterback's accrued bonus in the fifth year of this contract (in units of $10,000).
OVERALLRATING - A value from 0-10, indicating the overall potential ability of this quarterback. The game uses this value to create ratings. The ratings may differ significantly from universe to universe. There is a random element to new player ratings. The "X-Factor" in the new universe wizard determines the range of that random element. This is the most critical value in the player file. If you change how this value is distributed among players, it will considerably change the statistical performances you'll see in games and AI-controlled teams will struggle to manage rosters properly.
0 - The quarterback is of replacement quality. Expect low ratings across the board.
1 - The quarterback is of backup quality. Ratings are generally low.
2 - The quarterback is of starting quality. Ratings can vary.
3 - The quarterback is usually one of the better starters in the league.
4-7 - Increasingly rare - quarterbacks are often All-Star level.
8 - The quarterback is often the best in the league.
9 - The quarterback is a generational talent.
10 - The quarterback is below replacement quality, and will only be placed on a team at the start of a new universe if he's needed to fill a roster.

Player Attributes

The remaining fields offer the ability to give each quarterback in a new universe specific ratings. Use -1 if you want a quarterback to have his ability in that category determined by using the overall rating. The default quarterback file in Front Office Football Nine has mostly -1s here for lower-rated quarterbacks. A quarterback's desire to run the ball is provided, as this can greatly change how he plays. If not -1, this field should range from 0-250. Be careful, as the distribution of quarterback ratings can change how the game plays, considerably. The highest values should be reserved only for the very best quarterbacks in the league. Most quarterbacks should range from 0-100 in most categories.

TOUCH - Quarterback's ability to throw accurate screen and short passes.
QUALITY - Quarterback's ability to throw accurate mid-range passes.
ARM_STRENGTH - Quarterback's ability to throw accurate long passes.
SCRAMBLE - Quarterback's desire to run the ball when unable to find an open receiver.
DECISIONS - Quarterback's ability to make good decisions under pressure, which lowers interceptions and results in better choices on option plays and better success rates with quarterback sneaks.
ACCURACY - Quarterback's pin-point throwing accuracy, which helps with completing passes.
TIMING - Quarterback's ability to throw in front of a runner, resulting in more yards after the catch.
SENSE_RUSH - Quarterback's ability to sense the pass rush and avoid getting sacked.
READ_DEFENSE - Quarterback's ability to read the defense, resulting in better use of secondary routes and recognition of better choices on option plays.
TWO_MINUTE - Quarterback's ability to effectively run the offense during hurry-up situations, under greater time pressures.
FOOTWORK - Quarterback's natural throwing rhythm, which leads to better future development.
IMPROVISATION - Quarterback's ability to quickly deal with pressure, resulting in greater efficiency when not sacked.
CONFIDENCE - Quarterback's desire to complete longer throws, which can result in more interceptions, but also fewer missed opportunities.
SKILL_SPEED - Quarterback's raw speed in pads, resulting in more breakaway runs.
HOLE_RECOGNITION - Quarterback's (as ball carrier) ability to find the best possible path for gaining rushing yardage.
SECURE_HANDLING - Quarterback's ability to hold on to the ball after contact.